[Music]
well good morning and welcome to
breakfast with dan walker and louise
mentioned the headlines for you at six
o'clock
were you silent or were you silenced
a first glimpse of harry and megan's
extended interview with oprah winfrey
and an emotional reference
by the prince to his mother i can't
begin
to imagine what it must have been like
for her going through this process by
herself
all those years ago because it has been
unbelievably tough for the two of us
but at least we had each other a uk-wide
search begins for one of six patients
found to have a contagious brazilian
variant
of covert 19 five others have been
traced to gloucestershire and scotland
an extra one point
sorry an extra 65 billion pounds for the
uk's vaccination program will be made
available in this week's budget
and ahead of that budget on wednesday
the cost of the pandemic is in focus
business will want to know what extra
financial help
it will get but the chancellor says
he'll need to raise money to pay for it
so who will pick up the bill and the
golden globe goes to
the crown
a royal theme at the golden globe awards
where the crown picks up
four awards in a good night for british
talent
manchester united are furious after they
are denied a penalty in the goal of
straw at chelsea they
say it was definitely a handball and the
referees are now being swayed by
outside influences good morning there's
some dense fog around this morning
particularly so
across some central eastern and southern
parts of england
some of that will lift a lot of it will
stick but for the rest of us where we've
got early morning cloud
it will break and we'll see some
sunshine i'll have all the details
later in the programme
[Music]
good morning it's monday the 1st of
march top story for you this morning the
first clips of the duke and duchess of
sussex speak to oprah winfrey in their
much anticipated tv special have been
released
ahead of the full interview this weekend
prince harry references his mother's
departure from the royal family
and shares his concern that history was
repeating itself
our royal correspondent daniella ralph
has more
were you silent or were you silenced no
answer to that yet from megan
but this was just the trailer ahead of
next weekend's broadcast of the much
anticipated interview
almost unsurvivable sounds like there
was a breaking point
my biggest concern was history repeating
itself from prince harry the talk is of
his mother
and protecting his wife i'm just really
relieved and happy to be sitting here
talking to you with my wife by my side
because i can't begin to imagine what it
must have been like for her
going through this process by herself
all those years ago
because it has been unbelievably tough
for the two of us but at least we had
each other
oprah winfrey has become a friend and
neighbor of the couple
since being invited to their wedding her
interview style isn't aggressive
but she will have encouraged them to
open up and reveal what went wrong
behind palace walls and that is the
concern of the royal family
how critical have harry and megan been
you've said some pretty shocking things
here daniela ralph
bbc news health officials are trying to
trace one of six people infected with
the new and contagious
variant of kovid19 found in the uk three
cases in scotland have been identified
two more in south gloucestershire where
extra testing begins in some postcodes
this morning
our reporter anisa cardrey has this
report
testing like this is being ramped up in
south gloucestershire
it means patients without covid symptoms
can be tested
all to contain the spread of the
brazilian variant in the uk
three cases were found in northeast
scotland after passengers flew back from
brazil via paris and london
in england the first two cases are from
the same household in south
gloucestershire
after one person returned from brazil
last month before the hotel quarantine
rules were introduced
but another who tested positive didn't
fill in the paperwork correctly
so health officials are still trying to
track them down
they want anyone who took a test on the
12th or 13th of february
and who hasn't received a result come
forward immediately
this new strain of coronavirus was first
detected in the city of manaus in the
amazon region of brazil
when compared to the main variant in the
uk is thought there could be more risk
of someone catching it
a second time we are concerned that this
may have increased transmissibility
may lead to more infections and we don't
yet know the vaccine effect
and so really want to prevent the spread
in the uk population
there are some concerns vaccines may not
be as effective
but health officials are staying
positive new vaccines that are being
used for
covid can be adapted very rapidly so
it's likely that if we do need to change
the vaccine that can be done in months
rather than years which was the case
with the more traditional vaccines
work is already underway to tweak the
vaccines to make them a better match for
new variants
anisa cardri bbc news
the uk's coveted vaccination program
will receive an extra 1.6 billion pounds
in this week's budget
the chancellor rishi shunak will pledge
the money to help reach the government's
target of offering every adult a first
dose by the end
of july the announcement is the latest
pledge ahead of
what's being called the giveaway budget
but raises more questions about how the
pandemic bill will eventually be paid
for
ben is in london for us this morning um
lots of tough questions
um ahead for the chancellor to answer as
well morning
yeah morning to you both uh quite a big
week as far as business
is concerned ahead of that budget on
wednesday and remember the chances are
coming into this budget
with a mammoth task he's got to try and
work out how to pay for all of the money
that's been spent on the measures to try
to
help the economy through the worst of
this crisis
and remember in the last set of figures
we found out that the uk is currently
borrowing 270 billion pounds
that's 220 billion more than the same
time last year
astronomical figures and the chance has
already said he's got to work out a way
of raising some money
to pay for some of that back especially
if interest rates start to rise which
would make that borrowing
more expensive and so a lot of
speculation ahead of the budget on
wednesday about what he may be
considering how we might claw back some
of that money to pay for some of those
support measures that he's put in place
some of the options are an increase in
corporation tax
that would be a tax an additional tax on
business
to try to raise some money there could
be further measures things like
an additional tax on excessive profits
so the businesses that have done pretty
well out of this pandemic could pay
but at the same time as you touched on
that giveaway budget there could be an
extension
of things like stamp duty holidays
that's very welcome for first time
buyers saving them about fifteen
thousand pounds
and they'll also be a big focus on
things like universal credit whether
that extra
20 pounds a week uplift that's been in
place for this pandemic
will be extended so lots of big
questions ahead of wednesday
we won't get many answers until then but
business keeping a very close eye
on what measures may be extended through
to the summer especially that follow
scheme that has kept so many people in a
job
throughout the worst of this pandemic
ben thank you very much we'll
have more from you later from there
thank you hospital bosses are urging
ministers to increase
icu bed capacity in england following
the pandemic
nhs providers argue there are fewer beds
per 100 000 people than in
other large economies including france
germany and australia
the department of health says it plans
to build and upgrade
40 hospitals we were having to double
and triple
that capacity using operating theaters
which meant that we couldn't uh operate
on people
we were asking our staff to work with
patient staff ratios like one to three
one to four
as opposed to normal one to one so what
this has shown us very clearly is that
we need
more critical care capacity and we have
to be frank the lowest
some of the lowest uh a number of
critical care beds per 100 000
population
of any anybody in europe so there is a
real issue here
british stars have dominated the golden
globes awards which recognize the best
in film and tv
and the crown was the big winner of the
night
here's the moment when emma corrin who
played diana won best actress in a drama
series
and the golden globe goes to
emma corin the crown
[Applause]
[Music]
thank you um thank you so much
um thank you so much dhfa for this
incredible honor
what um thank you so much to
everyone thank you to my incredible cast
and crew for being by my side this
entire time thank you to my prince
charming josh i could not have done this
without you um thank you for making
every single day by my side a complete
joy
um thank you and most of all thank you
so much to diana you
have taught me compassion and empathy
beyond any measure that i can ever
imagine and
on behalf of everyone who remembers you
so fondly and passionately in our hearts
thank you
lots of thank yous there um let's speak
to our correspondent peter bose who
joins us from los angeles so it was a
kind of different show from bygone years
but i mean the british talent did
extremely well morning
yes a huge amount of british talent a
lot of smiling british faces
at the end of the night but you're right
it was a very different show of course
it was a
remote show it was virtual hollywood's
kind of getting used to
doing this kind of performance during
the pandemic
members of the audience weren't
celebrities they were actually first
responders
emergency workers who've been working
through the
last year so it felt very different but
yes a lot of british success
the crown especially not just emma
corian but there was josh
o'connor as well and julian anderson
actually won
in her particular category for playing
margaret thatcher the crown winning for
best
tv series in the drama category in the
comedy
section it was borat subsequent movie
film
sasha baron cohen winning for best actor
in a comedy some people might be
surprised at that because it wasn't
universally
loved by the critics the top award
of the night went to nomad land which is
the film
about a woman's journey through the
western
united states francis mcdormand and i
think if the
event the evening tells us anything well
perhaps some clues
as to which films are likely to do well
in the oscars which are much later this
year
in a few weeks time in april peter thank
you very much for the update thank you
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news